# AWE-Battery-HPS

A techn-economic model simulating the energy and econoic performance of an airborne wind energy and batteries hybrid power system. The model is formulated as project lifetime simulations based on consecutive yearly performance where the AWE power and battery storage of a system is simulated for given market and wind conditions.\

1. It requires integration with AWE performance and cost models, the performance model is located at https://github.com/awegroup/AWE-Power and the cost model at https://github.com/awegroup/AWE-Eco.
2. The model accounts for the effects of battery degradation and can be used for multiple storage technologies.



## How to cite

If you use the model then please cite the corresponding paper:

[paper]

## Dependencies

The model is built and tested in MATLAB R2021b (without additional add-ons). Try installing this version if your version of MATLAB does not execute the code successfully.


## Installation and execution 

Please Clone or Download the repository to start using the model.


## Overview of the Repository

The Repository consists following folders:

1. `src`: Contains the source code of the model and scripts used to generate plots used in the associated MSc thesis.
2. `inputFiles`: Contains some pre-defined input files.
3. `lib`: Contains external functions required to run the model.



## Pre-defined Example Simulation

A pre-defined input file named `inputFile_100kW_AWEHPS.yml` is stored in the folder `inputFiles`. This input file simulates a system with rated electrical power of 100 kW.
1. Execute `run_awePower.m` to generate and save model outputs. The outputs will be stored in the folder `outputFiles`.
2. Execute `run_aweEco.m` to generate and save model cost outputs. The outputs will be stored in the folder `outputFiles`.
2. Execute `main_AWE_HPS.m` to simulate the AWE HPS using the outputs of awePower and aweEco.


## To Run with User-defined Inputs

1. A section labeled 'System inputs' within the 'main_AWE_HPS.m' script contains all necessary inputs and can be adjusted to other specifications.
2. Alternative results can be generated by executing the script `run_awePower.m` using an adjusted inputfile, this can be done by adjusting the `inputFile_100kW_AWEHPS.yml` in the 'inputfiles' folder.
3. Results can be visualized by uncommenting a section of the 'plots' section, structured as visualisations per system component and scenario context.

### Generated Output Files

The following .mat files get generated as output.

1. `Scen1` contains the results of the first AWE-UC scenario.
2. `Scen2` contains the results of the second AWE-Batteries scenario.
3. `Scen3` contains the results of the third Battery arbitrage scenario.
3. `Scen4` contains the results of the fourth AWe-Battery arbitrage scenario.

## Licence
This project is licensed under the MIT License. Please see the below WAIVER in association with the license.

## Acknowledgement
The project was supported by Rishikesh Joshi, the author of the AWE-Power and AWE-Eco repositories.

### WAIVER
Technische Universiteit Delft hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program “AWE-Power” (a fast cycle-power computation model) written by the Author(s).

Prof.dr. H.G.C. (Henri) Werij, Dean of Aerospace Engineering

Copyright (c) 2024 Bart Zweers